- Good morning, this is OneRadioNetwork.com.
The telephone number is 888-663-6386.
Email patrick@oneradionetwork.com.
We are listener supported, One Radio Network.
- Well, good morning, welcome to part two
of our little show, running just a few minutes behind.
Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com,
with Dr. Ray Peat, he's a PhD,
and he's on the show with us on the third Monday
of each month at around 10.30 central time,
and he's been at this for, Doc, what now, 35 years?
You've got, has it been?
- 40, 45.
- 40, 45 years, and you're, wow, wow.
And you're feeling good?
You're, did you say you're 83 revolutions around the sun?
83 revolutions around the sun.
- Yeah, and Dr. Ray Peat drinks milk and has sugar,
so you might wanna listen and see how he does that.
Dr. Peat, good morning.
- Good morning.
- So I was just kinda asking you off the air for a second,
but let's dig into this, 'cause we just had a guest
who was talking about the idea that these viruses,
measles and herpes and all these things,
we actually have, his conjecture is that we have these
in our bodies already.
The root canal people that we've had on have proven
through biology and peer-reviewed studies
that they open up these root canals, Doc,
you know, these infected guys,
and they find things in there like all kinds of things,
from herpes to syphilis to all kinds of crazy stuff
that's already in the body.
Does any of that kinda balance with your whole thing?
You've been at this a long time.
- Yeah, have you heard of Peter Duesberg
and the HIV critics?
- Yeah, I mean, a little bit.
Tell folks who he is.
- I started graduate school in biology in 1968,
and I think it was in '69,
Temin and Baltimore published an article
saying that they had evidence that DNA
could be transcribed into RNA,
and RNA could, a virus could,
according to the existence of that enzyme,
there was a possibility for a virus to insert
its, from RNA to DNA,
it could leave its trace, its genes in the nucleus.
And at the time, all of my molecular biology professors
denied that that was possible
because they had the dogma that genetic information
goes only from DNA to RNA to protein.
And so the idea that protein could be a virus
or that RNA could be integrated into the genes
as a virus, RNA was not supposed to be translatable
in the DNA, but it turns out that we're full of retroviruses.
Some people say a huge proportion of all of our genes
consist of retroviruses, and that during stress,
we emit these as possibly part of a curative system.
In, around just a little while after that,
there was an acupuncturist lent me a pamphlet
he had written by a North Korean,
claiming he had evidence of particles of nucleic acid
circulating in our lymph, well, he said it looked like
our lymphatic system, but he said it was a completely
separate circulatory system, a third circulatory system
carrying these virus-like particles
that were actually emitted by cells to repair cells
in other parts of the body.
That was, he wrote that around 1965, I think.
And just in the last, oh, 10 years or so,
it's now recognized that we are full of these
tiny particles carrying RNA and DNA and proteins
emitted under stress, aging and any sort of sickness
or stress cause our cells to emit particles that circulate
so that they can come out of a stress tissue,
carry, be carried in the blood to the bone marrow,
for example, and change cells in the bone marrow
so that they are able to repair the injured cell,
a two-way communication of viral-like particles.
And since our genome is fairly full of these
viral-type particles, retroviruses,
that's a very plausible idea that viruses
could originate from stressed organisms.
We know that epidemics originate in famines and wars
and conditions that are stressing organisms.
And they don't necessarily have to travel
only from like the green monkey theory of AIDS,
traveling to humans or the snake to monkey
to cats and humans of the Chinese virus.
Like 40 years ago, there were two botanists
researching plant viruses at Oregon State University.
And they would use pumice powder on their fingers
and rub the solutions of plant viruses
into the leaves of plants to create
the viral disease they were studying.
And within a short period of time,
both of those researchers came down
with the same kind of rare degenerative brain disease,
which to me was very suggestive
that a plant virus had invaded their system.
And I stopped eating raw vegetables at that point.
- So if I have a virus that manifests itself
to help repair something in my body,
our previous guest was talking about how herpes will do,
the lips may do some things like chapped and everything
because the person, well, his whole thing
is like the person was saying the person wants to be kissed
so the lips will try to put more of these
little sensitive particles out there and all that.
And the herpes will actually come in
and try to heal that up kind of thing.
But if this is true and some of these things
like come out of Patrick that are already there,
they've been there forever and they manifest
for a healing process that I need to go through
karmically, spiritually,
I can't pass those on to somebody else, can I?
- Yeah, a couple of-- - Can you?
- Publications in the last few years
have found that within the body,
it's now known that they not only go to the bone marrow
to change our immune system cells,
they can actually go to the gonads
and enter our germ cells so they can be passed on.
So it's exactly the situation that Darwin proposed
with his gemules coming from all of the body parts
going in to the gonads,
modifying them for the inherent acquired characteristics.
But in this recent research,
they've just demonstrated that the microvesicles
do enter germ cells among other cells.
And 80 years ago, people were talking about
the strange properties that exist within a continent.
They see similarities between plants
and invertebrate insects and such,
and the various mammals,
all varieties of organisms share some properties
within the continent that evolution doesn't explain those.
And so they've proposed that long ago
that particles, pollen, for example,
carries genetic information and we breathe it.
And a lab in Germany for, I guess,
going back 15 years at least,
has demonstrated that if you eat beef, for example,
you can trace the genetic DNA patterns,
actual long pieces of DNA from the beef that you ate
into your bloodstream and into your cells.
We're incorporating not only viruses
but just cellular DNA from the various species that we eat.
So it's entirely possible that when you cough on someone,
for example, that they inhale not only viral infections
but your DNA is all around you
and anyone who contacts you is assimilating that.
They've now demonstrated that a good number of people
have been tested and after death,
they can test a woman's brain tissue, for example,
and find the DNA traces in her brain and other tissues
of each of her previous husbands.
- Wow, wow.
- So DNA is much more pervasive than we usually think.
- Well, spiritually, it really kind of makes sense,
isn't it, if you have the idea,
if you believe in reincarnations,
I do, in past lives, in karma,
and we reincarnate with somebody for a certain experience
and they have these things that we share.
I mean, that all kind of makes sense to me.
- Yeah. - You know what I'm saying?
It kind of makes sense.
It's like there's no accidents kind of thing.
- It's pretty much a continuous string
of information, of genetic material.
(laughing)
- So was Darwin onto something or how far off was he?
- Oh, he had all of the principles down.
He just didn't know the details,
didn't know there was such a thing as DNA,
but he had the idea right.
- Yeah, he was onto it.
Dr. Ray Peat is with us,
Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com.
We have lots of questions, we always do.
He has a PhD in biology, University of Oregon,
way back where he specialized in physiology.
He taught University of Oregon,
Urbana College, Montana State University.
He's down in Mexico, nutritional counseling,
and so he's been around for quite a while,
for 45 years, if you have a question or two.
So what kinds of questions have you been getting
about this whole corona thing
and what kind of insights do you have
for our audience for March 16th?
Looks like, who knows, could be the still long time
to go with this country.
Do you have any opinions on that,
where you think this thing is going?
- Oh, yeah, I sort of sympathize with Trump
that I think the CDC has been helping
a couple of drug companies to increase
their share of value, skyrocketing share prices
of the vaccine maker.
And both World Health Organization and CDC
have that connection with the vaccine industry.
And a lot of people have been exposed for corruption,
but no one is doing anything about it.
So in a typical year, the CDC has said
that an average of about 40,000 Americans die of the flu.
So now they're getting excited when a few dozen people die.
It is out of proportion to what they claim
to be the usual annual mortality from flu.
- Yeah, and is it true that most of these people,
when they call the flu, it's really, it's a pneumonia,
kind of goes in the lungs and does that whole thing?
- Yeah, and the way the CDC has built up the market
for flu vaccines is to call anyone who dies
of pneumonia a death from influenza.
But a very old person, say a hundred year old person
without any particular sickness might just eat
too much raw cabbage or something that gives them gas.
And that will cause pneumonia.
So people dying of pneumonia can't be counted as flu death.
So CDC has been fudging on that.
But it happens that over 10 years ago,
the coronavirus was known to simply activate
the well-known inflammation systems,
the angiotensin system.
For decades, we've had the angiotensin receptor blockers
and ACE inhibitors.
The angiotensin converting enzyme produces
the inflammatory protein that causes blood pressure
to rise and so on.
And there's a close interaction between serotonin
and angiotensin.
And those are both well-studied causes
of aging-related inflammation.
So your angiotensin exposure and production
will increase in old age.
And that increases your likelihood
of getting pneumonia from anything.
It's a general inflammatory system
that increases contraction of blood vessels
and risk of clotting and fatigue,
interfering with energy production and so on.
And the people who are dying at a very high rate
from the coronavirus are those who already are suffering
from circulatory disease, hypertension,
heart disease, and stroke.
And so they already have an active angiotensin system.
And the virus finds an environment
already going in the direction.
It happens that the angiotensin converting enzyme number two.
- Yes, ACE2, ACE2, yeah.
- It's the receptor for the virus.
The virus attaches to that in the process
of entering a cell and becoming infective.
And ACE2 is the enzyme that undoes the infection
and does the work of ACE itself.
ACE produces angiotensin,
and ACE2 then destroys angiotensin.
So what the virus does in binding to ACE2
seems to be inactivating the inactivator of angiotensin.
That leaves ACE free to make angiotensin,
which then doesn't have any way out.
So it accumulates, causing all of the dry cough,
the high fever, increased hypertension,
and stroke, and so on.
- Someone was on the show conjecturing
that Oriental people tend to have more of these ACE2 guys
in their body.
Is it possible?
- If it's ACE2, yeah, that would let them--
- Be more vulnerable.
- Be a better target for the virus,
but it would also suggest that having that without the virus
would be more resistant to the age-related inflammation.
- I kind of lost you there.
- Since that's the protective enzyme,
the ACE2 destroys angiotensin,
if you have a lot of it, you're like a young person.
Young people have more of that,
and so are less susceptible to the virus,
but also to age-related degenerative diseases.
- So why do you think there was so much going on
in this Wuhan place?
I mean, can we conjecture that from where you sit?
- What was the question?
- Why was there so many people affected,
like in this Wuhan city where--
- Oh, well, have you heard about the military games?
- Of course, yes, of course.
- Yeah, the American soldiers left
exactly 14 days before the outbreak.
- Oh, I hadn't heard that, really?
- South Korean and Taiwan virologists
have traced the gene pattern back,
find that in the US,
there are five different strains of the coronavirus.
The Wuhan strain is just one of those,
and they say logically,
you can have derived the Wuhan
from one of those pre-existing five strains,
but you wouldn't have, at this time,
five descendants, and the inheritance goes the other way,
that the Wuhan strain is like a branch on the tree,
and the preceding varieties of the virus
were existing in the US.
- Already. - Already.
- And many of us already have these guys in there, right?
- Yeah. - Yeah.
- And you know the CDC patented the coronavirus 17 years ago.
- Oh, they did, good for them.
- And research was being done at Fort Detrick,
supposedly creating pathogens
to create vaccines to counter them.
So the suggestion has been made
that there was an accidental release of that,
and an article in Nature years ago said,
people have been quoting,
well, the recent comment on that old article
was that people are citing this article
to indicate that the virus originated
at the Fort Detrick lab.
That couldn't be possible
because it would incriminate Fort Detrick, basically.
- Sure, right, but it's possible, in your opinion,
that it was a bioweapon thing.
And I guess it could be very possible
that this was a whole controlled release thing
for all kinds of political reasons.
- Yeah, yeah, they shut down the lab in July or August,
and then there was the epidemic of lung damage
or pneumonia blamed on vaping poisons,
but then shortly after that, the Wuhan episode.
- So some of these strains were lab-created.
Does that pose a more substantial problem
for the human immune system to deal with it
if it's coming from outside of them?
But it could be already in there anyway.
I'm kind of confused.
- Well, in the lab, you can accelerate
evolutionary changes and make very improbable things
that might never statistically happen in a living organism.
- Which makes it just not easy
for the human body to work with it
because evolution, you just kind of figure it out
as you go with these viruses
that are theoretically everywhere, right, these viruses?
- Yeah, and in these labs, researching pathogens,
creating pathogens to imagine an attack
and how to create a vaccine to it,
the pathogens they create are more imaginative,
I think, than nature.
- Yeah, I mean, so I guess it's evident
that somebody's gonna come out
with a vaccine for this thing soon, right?
And they'll probably then want everybody to get it
or sell it or--
- Yeah, that's why the stock prices
of that vaccine company have gone up so much
because they say they're close to coming
to the market with it.
But the trouble is that ever since before the swine flu,
the guy that got fired for exposing
the non-existence of the swine flu,
he was warning that the whole thing is pointless
because flu viruses mutate faster
than you can create a vaccine and test it for safety.
So by the time you can show that a vaccine
is effective and safe, there'll be no flu left to--
- To do, to do anything with.
- Yeah.
- So, I mean, because you would have to make a flu virus
a year before the flu season anyway, right?
- Yeah, yeah, so if the lab was very clever,
they could produce the disease a year ahead and then--
- Put that one out there.
- Yeah.
- What do you think, there's been people around
over the years that have conjectured
that this HIV thing is not really a virus
that you can see and it's just not there.
And there's a German Supreme Court
that just uphold a biologist's claim,
this article that we put on our website,
that measles virus does not exist.
It just doesn't exist.
- Yeah, but I've followed Peter Duisburg's argument closely
now for 35 or 40 years.
He has never been proven wrong.
He lost his research grants and is now officially
out of the science world because he persists
with his evidence.
- And what evidence is that?
Let's recap, what evidence has Duisburg said
for the last 40 years?
- He says it's the genetic DNA strip is a retrovirus.
He says it's a harmless retrovirus
and we're full of such DNA.
When we're under stress, it shows up in the blood.
So you can have a blood test for it,
but all it's showing is that you're a stressed individual.
And that's just one of many pieces of DNA
that shows up in this cloud.
At the time he was presenting his argument,
this other information of microvesicles carrying DNA
and RNA all through the body every time we're under stress.
That just wasn't known except to the acupuncture world.
But it's now a common knowledge that stress causes
retrovirus material to explode into the bloodstream
so you can find it and sell a blood test
for just about anything you can imagine.
- So which follows then with some people,
they go through this quote, flu season unquote,
and they're stressed or worry and angst
and they'll come up with something
where somebody else won't because it's already there
and it just manifests itself.
- Yeah, and people have tested blood samples taken
in army recruits decades before anyone suggested
that there was AIDS or HIV virus.
From the 1960s for example,
and giving the standard DNA analysis to those blood samples,
every year tested, half percent of the population
tested positive for AIDS.
Every year, as far back as they had blood samples,
0.5% has tested positive.
And more recently, when you go across
and actually look at random blood samples,
it's still half a percent is infected.
But if you pick out sick people,
you'll find a very high percentage.
- So I guess it's possible, this is all conjecture,
but the whole thing with the gay lifestyle
could have been, I don't know,
just fear and angst and maybe guilt.
- Peter Duisburg said it correlated exactly
with their use of particular drugs.
The drug causes stress and causes the virus to come out
as well as causing the sickness.
So there was a correspondence,
but it was caused by drug use.
- Oh, by giving the drug to the people.
- Oh, yeah.
- Who tested positive.
- After the treatment came out,
Duisburg said, "You're creating the virus
"that you're treating."
But before that, he correlated
the Bay Area in particular.
There was a fad of using particular vasodilator drug
for a pleasure experience.
- Yeah, like a poppers.
- Yeah, exactly.
- Right, right.
And how did that tie into it
with the gay community, with the poppers?
- That particular drug creates a very intense
stress reaction that causes the release
of these retroviruses.
- So Duisburg argument, and you've been following him
for 40 years, Duisburg?
- Yeah, from his first arguments around 1982,
I think it was.
- My goodness.
And so people that test positive,
and that's a certain percentage,
then they would take the AIDS drug
and then that would blow the thing up.
Could they pass on this thing to somebody else
through sexual encounters?
Probably, I guess.
- The same way a mother passes on these microvesicles,
it's a normal thing.
- To pass them.
- Whatever is circulating in your bloodstream
to show up in the egg or the sperm.
- Right.
Whoa.
Dr. Peat is with us, Patrick Timpone.
Dr. Peat, stay right there.
We're gonna take a quick little break here.
Well, please tell folks about One Radio Network,
'cause you heard the last show,
and now this show, you hear things that are just different
from what you hear around the rest of the world,
and we like that, because that's where we're trying
to just keep digging and digging.
We're not saying that every guest has the truth,
the whole truth, nothing but the truth,
but it's up for you to make your own decision about that,
judge the people and their experience and where they've been
and how this might fit into your life or not.
Patrick Timpone, oneradionetwork.com.
Previously with Peter Ragnar,
who's a great example of staying young and healthy,
we asked him what kinds of things he takes.
- Personally, for myself, I look at all of the supplements
that help bolster and harmonize my hormones,
and this is both for men and for women,
and when you go online,
there's so much information about that out there.
I've actually, I heard on one of your advertisements there,
Patrick, about the pine pollen.
I personally take pine pollen,
which is, I think it's an amazing product,
has an amazing effect upon the body.
- Peter, it's one of our favorites, too.
Pine pollen, any of these are Thrival Links.
You have the Pine Pollen Pure Potency, Pine Pollen Gold,
and if you'd like to get it every month,
the auto ship is the best price.
Also, Steven Buehner's book exclusively on pine pollen
is right there on the site, too, Daniel's site,
right here on oneradionetwork.com.
Brian Clement, who heads up
the Hippocrates Institute in Florida,
talked about saunas here.
Elke writes in for Brian Clement,
"Would Brian give us some tips
"on what supplements we would need to take
"if we do saunas several times a week
"to replenish lost minerals from sweating?"
- Well, Dr. Rao, who you had on as a colleague and a friend,
we do often conferences together in Europe,
and I agree, we have saunas here.
I take a sauna, so you know this,
no matter where I travel in the world, 365 days a year.
I think it's mandatory.
- Really?
- 87%, listen closely, 87% more heavy metals
and chemicals come out in an infrared.
- Well, no wonder we feel better when we take these saunas.
We have to relax.
- Yes, we do.
And there's also scientific proof,
if you believe in any kind of science,
that you can do, say, a urine push.
In other words, you can do some ETDDA
or something like that, and pee,
and then test your metals that come out.
There could be some, you know, whatever,
mercury or arsenic, stuff like that, lead.
And then you can do a far infrared sauna
for about 30 minutes.
You do the test, the pee test again,
and actually more of these guys come out
through the kidneys, for sure.
And I would just conjecture, I guess,
then the feces as well.
So not only are we getting a lot of stuff
out through the skin, but then, you know,
the heavy metals which go in,
this toxic stuff which has been shown to be in the fat,
it'll come out the pee and poop as well.
So these things are really helpful for you to detoxify.
For what it's worth, I do one almost every day of my life.
I just do it.
They've been incredibly helpful for me
to stay well and happy boy.
So if you'd like to get one,
we have the Relax Far Infrared Sauna.
They're made in Taiwan, Medical University.
They've won several awards for the technology.
The far infrared rays, you sit in there,
you see the picture.
If you're listening to the show on video this morning,
you see the picture there,
and you can just email me and we'll give you one
for $1,150, delivered lower 48,
and we ship them all over the world,
all over the world, the lower 48.
And if you live in the EU, for example,
it'll come with the proper plug.
It'll just work just fine for you.
So that's the Relax Far Infrared Sauna.
I think the retail is about 1,300 bucks.
I don't think you can calculate a dollar figure
to what this, the goodness it can do for you
to help detoxify whatever, you know,
is going on around there and planet Earth,
which is kind of strange these days.
So it's a great investment,
but you have to email me to get the deal
'cause we can't put it in print.
Patrick at one radio network desk com.
Just a quick plug here on the AquaCare hydrogen machine.
Folks have been asking if they can get these
shipped to Europe.
You see the picture here if you're listening on video.
Yes, you can.
George sent it with a little adapter.
So if you live in the EU, anywhere in Japan,
this'll work for your particular plug.
They do ship them all over the world.
And the one year, no questions asked,
money back guarantee for this hydrogen
Browns gas producing machine works
for the Promo Code One Radio.
And then the one year, no questions asked,
money back, and then a lifetime warranty
just so you know on oneradionetwork.com.
You can click an order if you wanna get one of these guys
and we think they're just really cool.
Just pretty amazing technology.
And just email me if you have any questions
or use promo code one radio on the machine.
- We are listener supported.
One Radio Network.
- We're talking with Dr. Ray Peat.
And he's here the third Monday of each month
at 1030 Central.
So we're real grateful you take the time to do this,
Dr. Peat, thank you.
People really enjoy hearing from you.
You wanna do some emails?
You wanna do some?
- Okay.
Here is from Amy.
I broke three bones on my left shoulder on Friday,
March 6, fractured the right knee.
I used Tabasco for topical pain relief.
It's working for me.
What can I do to aid in the speeding up of healing?
I'm not planning on surgery.
Have you used any magnets, Dr. Peat?
Have you ever used magnets?
And what else can she put on this guy topically
to help heal or internally?
- The Tabasco idea is a traditional medical idea
to increase circulation.
I think it does work.
Ultrasound, gentle, low energy, low frequency ultrasound
greatly accelerates bone healing.
You can get a cheap apparatus for,
I think, around $100.
- Yes, yes you can.
- And applying that a little bit every day
does internally, it probably imitates
the action of the Tabasco sauce.
And red light has a similar increase.
Open blood vessels and accelerate energy production
and speed healing.
- Does it have to be some fancy red light
with the particular, or it could just be the chicken lamps,
the ones that we use, right?
- Yeah, sunlight is best because it increases
your vitamin D, which is the other
essential bone healing factor.
- Yeah, I was diagnosed with an X-ray
with a little bone spur on C4, C5 kind of thing.
And one of the chiropractors recommended
one of those ultrasound machines
to help that whole thing just kind of normalize itself.
And I don't know, I think it was like 150 bucks.
It was really nice.
And they're easy to use too, aren't they?
- Yeah, they accelerate wound healing in general.
Someone found that infected tonsils healed up
when they put an ultrasound probe on them.
- Pretty interesting.
Here's an email.
Dr. Peat, you said that potatoes, rice,
and hominy are good foods.
So does that mean that you don't care
about the glycemic index or load
that it may be on our body?
- Yeah, I'm cautious about the starches.
Any starch, if you take it, even when it's well cooked,
a load of starch can pass directly
into your bloodstream.
In mouse experiments, they could show
that any of the starches with grains
ranging from five microns to 100 microns,
all of those could pass through the wall
of the intestine into the bloodstream
unless there was a lot of fat and fiber taken with it.
Once these get into the bloodstream,
the particles might be bigger than capillaries,
and depending on the size, they can plug blood vessels
and cause tissue cells to be deprived of blood supply.
So I stopped eating most starches
about 40 years ago when I read that research.
The research has been repeated many times now,
so it wasn't just one person's exceptional--
- And so then what kind of foods did you drop out
after believing this research to be accurate?
- Rice, wheat, potatoes, primarily.
The only starch I eat now, hominy,
or tortillas made with the lime process
called nixtamalized corn.
- Nixtamalized, yeah.
What's hominy?
Of course, we've heard of hominy grits.
Can you actually buy hominy?
That's kind of a, you could make a little cereal
with butter or whatever and be good for you?
Can you buy it?
- Yeah, the lime breaks down the starch
so that I had students experiment with it,
and it didn't have any of those harmful effects
that we could identify.
The lime also digests the protein,
makes it more nutritious.
- Can you purchase hominy
that's already been all limed up and ready to go?
- Yeah, except the tanned, whole, wet hominy
almost always comes with additives to keep it white,
and the sulfite can be dangerous for a lot of people.
- Can you buy organic, dry hominy that's been--
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, and you just cook it up.
It's the same as hominy grits, only in big pieces.
- And so generally, they've all been,
that nixtamization thing has already been done?
- Yeah, it isn't hominy unless it's been cooked in lime.
- Do you think that Bob's Red Mill guy,
does he do hominy, the pretty good place
that does these kind of products?
You know him?
- I don't know about it.
- But you can actually buy, if it's hominy,
it's been, what's that word, nixtamized?
- Nixtamalized.
- Nixtamalized, and that takes away the whole fat thing.
- It takes out most of the polyunsaturated fat,
it increases the niacin content,
and it predigests the starch to a great extent.
- Could that be part of the issue
that all of the no-grain people
are not really talking about,
but could be an issue with people
having a hard time with eating these grains?
You know, the Gundry's with the lectins
and all these people.
- Oh yeah, in the US Southern states,
pellagra was a big problem,
but because they were eating corn
without the lime treatment,
the Central Americans, Mexicans, South Americans,
Chinese, everyone for thousands of years
were cooking their grains in ashes,
producing sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide,
or burned limestone for the lime,
and they were detoxifying their grains,
but at the same time that would produce
a lot of niacin and reduce the leucine content.
Without that, people were getting very sick with pellagra.
- Can you lead us to a concise, clear way
that we can do this whole lime thing at home
if we want to eat some of these starches?
- Yeah, you can buy powdered lime at any,
I think some of the big markets like Whole Foods
are probably selling it now,
but for sure at any Latino market.
- Powdered lime, right?
- Yeah, and then if you want a big kettle,
like a gallon of water, you put in maybe a pound or two
of corn kernels and a big heaping tablespoon
or two of the lime and boil it until the seeds swell up
to about the size of an olive and get soft,
and that's how many the cellulose coating
separates from it at that time,
so you can stir it and strain off the flaky material
that isn't pleasant.
- And that's how they do it in Mexico, right?
'Cause they kinda know, they kinda know
that it works better for the body in tortillas.
- Yeah, and tastes much better.
It's interesting, ordinary bread,
even if you chew it for quite a while,
you don't notice the sweetness from your saliva acting on it
but with a tortilla or hominy, in just about 30 seconds,
you can taste the sweetness appearing.
- Interesting.
Can you, what if you liked to make your own bread
and use some heirloom wheat like einkorn or something?
Could you do the whole lime thing with that?
- Yeah, someone has been emailing me from Italy
trying the process on all the different
old traditional grains, and she says they all work very well.
- So you could do the same thing,
you do a gallon maybe of water,
a pound of the wheat berries, einkorn,
would be the old traditional one,
and you do the same thing with a tablespoon of lime
and boil it, and then could then make your bread from that?
- Yeah.
- Wow, pretty cool, pretty cool.
You learned this down in Mexico, right,
when you were down there for a long time?
- Yeah.
- So you said fat and fiber,
so what if you do a baked potato and put a lot of butter
and eat some fiber, some kind of psyllium
or something like that, would that make it easier?
- Well, the potato itself, especially if you eat
the peeling, there's enough fiber in that
if you have lots of cream or butter on it.
- Oh, so that helps it to be more digestible.
- Yeah.
Dr. Peat, that's great stuff.
Dr. Peat, should we be worried about melatonin in our food?
Melatonin in our food.
- No, not that I know of.
It can be toxic if you buy it in a pill
and take outrageous doses.
10 milligrams, I think, can upset your hormones,
but the physiological amount of melatonin,
one milligram is safe.
- Dr. Ray Peat is with us, Patrick Timpone,
OneRadioNetwork.com, March 16th.
Please pass on these links to everyone that you care about.
Dr. Peat, you recommended drinking kale broth,
but what about herbs such as tarragon or parsley
or dill and so on?
- Many of those are very full of allergens,
so if you have any digestive problems
or respiratory congestion, you should check
your sensitivity to those foods.
- Here's another email.
You have mentioned that our teeth absorb calcium.
Would washing our mouths out with lime water
help restore our enamel?
Well, that's a good question.
- Yeah, superficial cavities, not cavities,
but superficial imperfections
will pick up calcium right out of the solution.
Calcium phosphate crystallizes right into the solution.
But the same lime solution you cook the corn in
probably won't help except as a detergent effect.
Baking soda is a good detergent to clean,
remove the starch or sugar particles.
But it needs the phosphate with the calcium
for these repair processes in enamel defects.
- We've been promoting a product called Pearlseum,
which is from real pearls, and they seem to do that.
I've seen it in my own teeth
where it actually fills up little ridges.
'Cause it's the kind of calcium you said it works,
and I forget the name of it.
- I think that's calcium carbonate.
- Calcium carbonate, right.
- Yeah, the first calcium to be laid down in the bones,
for example, is calcium carbonate.
And then as it ages and matures, it takes up the phosphate.
- Wow, interesting.
Cody writes in from Florida, I was listening to the show,
I heard Dr. Peat O mentioned that he doesn't eat potatoes.
I'm interested to know why.
And I think we covered that one, right?
We've already covered the potato thing.
So even though potatoes with a lot of cream in the skins,
you just still pass on those, knowing what you--
- Yeah, mostly for the allergenic effect
of that whole family, tomatoes, eggplant,
bell peppers, for example.
- Oh, the whole nightshade thing,
do you think there's something real with that?
- Yeah, quite a few people
have an allergic sensitivity to it.
- Dr. Ray, Peat, here's Beth in Norton, Illinois.
Do you have any theories on what would make a person
susceptible to getting shingles
or thoughts on how to prevent them, shingles?
- Yeah, it's a stress breakout of the chickenpox virus
of the herpes family.
And it's probably involving those micro particles
that are shed by cells under stress.
And aspirin, by reducing stress and inflammation,
all of the anti-inflammatory things
help to prevent the cycling,
recurring episodes of shingles.
Once it starts, then it just has to play out
over a period of a week or so.
But during that time, if you do all of the anti-stress
things, vitamin D, lots of milk and orange juice,
some aspirin, vitamin K has some anti-inflammatory effects
that protect the blood vessels.
- Good old aspirin does that.
So I know some of my friends out of town
who go to traditional doctors,
they have them on these little aspirins
for this or that.
Not a bad idea then?
- Yeah, aspirin actually has germicidal,
antiviral properties.
There was a study done in Washington, D.C.
of AIDS patients, giving them big doses of aspirin.
And they were improving.
And the study was called off despite the disappearance
of the AIDS symptoms.
- But going back though, if these viruses,
like you've been talking about and our first guest
are really doing a lot of things they're supposed to do,
what would be a situation where we wanna go in
and try to kill them with this or that?
I'm kind of confused with that idea.
- Kill which virus?
- Yeah, kill the virus, right.
- When your body can't integrate them,
the body starts to disintegrate.
It's a matter of energy.
You can repair yourself and advance
to the next stage of functioning
if you have the energy to do it.
But when you're just not using oxygen properly,
so the things that create stress
are those that block oxygen use
and you end up producing lactic acid instead,
wasting the glucose, making lactic acid.
And the lactic acid accelerates the process,
producing inflammation and further reducing
the ability to use oxygen because that process
is part of wound healing, which is a reversion
to a primitive, like in the first stages
of growth of the fertilized egg.
It relies on a very energetic use of the energy supply,
a wasteful use of oxygen to produce intensely fast growth.
The lactic acid production is good during wound healing,
but for the whole organism, you want to get quickly
out of that stage and back to oxygen use
for full energy production.
And with aging and accumulated toxins and such,
it becomes harder to restore the full oxidative metabolism
so any little viral threat can become permanent.
- So that's the argument for people in a weakened condition
on meds and nursing homes and all that,
that might be a case to go in and try to manipulate
'cause they don't have the energy to deal with it.
- Yeah, and carbon dioxide is what should be produced
in producing energy rather than lactic acid.
One of the things that will make it easier
for, for example, a wounded or sick or aged person
to restore their energy is, for example,
bathing in carbon dioxide in a bathtub or a bag.
You absorb it through your skin,
and that increased level of carbon dioxide
turns off the inflammatory process,
suppresses the wasteful production of lactic acid,
and the reduced lactic acid tends to turn off
all of these virus release processes.
- And how do we, what do we put in the bath
to do the whole thing through the skin
to create more carbon dioxide internally?
- You absorb, they've known that in mineral springs
that are rich in carbon dioxide and bicarbonates,
the bicarbonate itself is turned in the surface of the skin
into carbon dioxide and is absorbed into the skin
even though the carbon dioxide in the bloodstream
is very high normally compared to the water
you're bathing in.
The body has such an affinity for it,
it will pull it out of the water,
converting bicarbonate to carbon dioxide at the surface
and then absorbing the carbon dioxide.
The pure gas likewise enters the skin,
dissolves in the body fluids very well.
- So you're talking about actually putting baking soda
in your bathtub?
- Yeah, that traditional thing,
a pound or so of baking soda
and maybe some Epsom salts with it.
But both of those, the magnesium will be absorbed better
for the bicarbonate that goes into the body with it.
- And that would be the argument too
for a little bit of baking soda even internally
if you want it.
- Yeah, and on the skin.
It's remarkably therapeutic.
- Dr. Ray Peat is with us, Patrick Timpone,
it is March 16th.
Please tell folks about our show here
and we have a lot of very interesting people
as you can hear.
What does Dr. Peat from Chris in Canada
think about hearing loss?
My doctor said, well, we just kind of lose
some of our hearing as we get older.
Is there anything I can do to reverse this?
- Thyroid is the single most important thing.
There have been a couple of publications
showing that high estrogen damages
the hair cells in the hearing apparatus.
And I think prolactin along with the estrogen,
you want to make sure those aren't elevated.
They tend to go up with aging.
And thyroid and vitamin D are among the things
that prevent those types of damage
to the apparatus of the inner ear.
- Larry writes in, 73, male, atherosclerosis,
my left carotid, how do you say that?
Carotid artery, how do you say it?
C-A-R-T-I-D.
- Oh, carotid.
- Carotid artery, sorry.
100% occluded.
And a year ago, my right carotid was 70% occluded.
According to last week's ultrasound,
my occlusion is getting worse
and my doctor wants me to have an angiogram.
Does Dr. Peat have any suggestions
for maybe non-invasive alternative tests and or issues?
He said I've used liquid ETDA, vitamin D3,
vitamin DK2, nanokinase, liposomal magnesium,
and but that's not helped the condition.
- The process we were talking about
in relation to the virus,
the angiotensin system is at the root
of the development of atherosclerosis.
And experiments in animals and people
show that you can reverse the process
and start getting the plaques unloaded
using the ACE inhibitors
and the angiotensin receptor blockers.
- What's an ACE inhibitor?
- Oh, the enzyme that makes angiotensin,
the first approach they had was
a molecule that blocks the function of that enzyme
so you don't make angiotensin
but it's more immediate and complete.
You can get 100% blockage of the receptor
so the angiotensin stops having its harmful effect
with the blocker, Losartan, for example.
A recent, last week I think, article in Lancet magazine
by three European doctors researching lung function
warned the public not to use Losartan
as the Chinese had recommended.
And these European doctors, I think,
failed to read enough of the research
of the preceding 10 or 15 years
because Losartan protects,
the Chinese have good evidence that it's protective
against the inflammatory processes of the virus
but separate research, completely unrelated virus,
shows that the molecules like Losartan
help to reverse atherosclerosis.
Have a very general anti-inflammatory process,
even migraine headaches,
it's now recognized as a very helpful thing
along with serotonin receptor blockers.
Serotonin and angiotensin and histamine
are very closely interactive with processes
like migraine and atherosclerosis.
- And is Losartan a pharmaceutical med?
- Yeah, it's I think the cheapest of them
and among the most effective.
- Can you buy like natural
or take natural ACE inhibitors or angiotensin guys?
- Progesterone is, the body's natural,
it lowers the receptor production
so it's not as immediate and powerful
as these pharmaceutical drugs but--
- It works.
- Yeah, it works.
- So actually a progesterone cream even for a guy
would help to de-plaque the body?
- Yeah, slightly, not as powerfully.
- How about high dose vitamin C?
We've often heard that that'll do it.
Any research showing that's true?
- A little but it has its side effects too.
- Too much, I mean what?
- Yeah, the manufactured stuff is never absolutely clean
and an experimenter using distilled water
put a gram of reagent grade highest purity
ascorbic acid into it and then put it
in an electron spin resonance apparatus
and showed it was as full of free radicals
as a killing dose of x-rays.
- Wow, really?
Speaking of x-rays, if one does an x-ray
or has to do or guys go out and do CT scans,
are those things that we could, if we wanna do that,
to minimize the ill effects of x-rays
or it's just something that happens
and will the body repair from any damage x-rays do?
- All of the anti-inflammatory things do help.
- Do they?
- Losartan included.
- Losartan.
- It's protective against x-rays like progesterone.
- Even turmeric and things like aspirin, turmeric.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Here is an email from Ty, 65 year old,
taking two grains of natrithroid daily.
He could foods have experiment with many approaches
to reverse type two diabetes level.
Don't want sugar meds, some ideas of what I can do?
- Well, vitamin D is helpful.
Vitamin K is another thing that helps to handle the calcium
which helps to handle the sugar.
Thyroid and vitamin D work so closely together
that you can't really separate their effects.
- A little plug here for Sir Thrival, Daniel Vitalis,
they have a vitamin D K2 product on through any Sir Thrival.
Link, very, very clean ingredients,
nothing yucky in there, very good.
So you get the vitamin D and the K2 as well.
Some folks take these big doses of vitamin D
and there's actually a company that's putting out
a 50,000 kind of unit thing.
In general, how do folks kind of figure out a vitamin D
dosage if they want to take extra vitamin D?
- During the winter, 5,000 units a day
is able to bring most people up into the middle of the range.
50 nanograms per milliliter, 50 to 60
is a good healthy range.
And for some reason, I guess doctors don't figure
people are gonna take their daily vitamins
so they like to prescribe these 50,000 unit doses
once a month or once a week until
the person gets the level up.
- But would it actually hang in there all that time?
I mean, 50,000?
- Yeah, it's oil soluble so one dose
will increase your blood level gradually
because it goes first into your fat tissues
and then is gradually assimilated
into your circulating blood.
- Downsides to having too much D?
- Yeah, but it's highly exaggerated in the experiments.
It takes a million units a day for many days
before you get the real calcification.
But a lot of people try to discourage its use
by saying that you can get calcified blood vessels
with fairly moderate doses.
But I think the biggest misunderstanding
of vitamin D and calcium is that
they think that the calcium you eat
and the vitamin D are going to go right
into your soft tissues.
But what causes calcification of the soft tissues
is a failure of energy, exactly the--
- Energy.
- Process that causes atherosclerosis
and all of the inflammatory processes.
The parathyroid hormone and aldosterone,
aldosterone is part of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone
system, increasing your blood pressure
and all of the stress-related, virus-related conditions.
Parathyroid hormone and aldosterone collaborate
to knock down your energy production
and shift you over to lactic acid production.
Parathyroid hormone, its main function
is to pull calcium out of your bones
for emergency use in the bloodstream.
So when your aldosterone and parathyroid hormone are high,
you will have increased blood calcium
and the calcification of the soft tissues,
which is a precursor to atherosclerosis
and hardening of the arteries.
But if you lower your aldosterone and parathyroid hormone
by having enough calcium and salt in your diet,
lots of calcium in your diet,
it can be thousands of milligrams a day,
will tend not to calcify your arteries
but to lower the parathyroid hormone
along with vitamin D, lowering the parathyroid.
And when the parathyroid is lower,
your mitochondria are able to work full speed
to produce energy, which keeps calcium
where it belongs in the bones, not in the blood vessels.
So warning people not to eat calcium
and restrict their vitamin D
is exactly what's going to increase your blood calcium
and your blood vessel calcification.
- Whoa, so these dark greens are good, right?
Collards and all kale cook these babies up, right?
They're good for you.
- Yeah, because they have the highest ratio
of calcium and magnesium to phosphate.
Phosphate, phosphorus in nuts, seeds, and meat and fish,
the high phosphate to calcium ratio
increases your parathyroid hormone,
damages your bones,
and puts the calcium into your blood vessels.
- Oh, and nuts, seeds, and meat.
- Yeah, it's the high calcium.
- So are you making an argument
for like just a vegetarian greens thing?
- Well, it's best to let the cow eat the greens
and then drink the milk and eat the cheese.
Because the cow has the apparatus to detoxify the greens.
The greens, the plant doesn't want its leaves to be eaten,
so it puts irritants and digestion blockers into the leaves.
The leaves and seeds have defensive toxic chemicals
to prevent being eaten by insects and cows.
And so the cow has the extra stomach
which favors the growth of microorganisms
which destroy those toxins and release the amino acids
and other nutrients to form the milk.
So a cow is a detox factory.
- Have you ever had the Basque,
I think it's sheep cheese, the Basque cheese, Bosphorus?
- Oh yeah, I use it every day.
- Wow, man.
Is that the best ever cheese or what?
- I like it.
- Wonderful.
- I like almost all cheeses,
but every day I do eat the sheep cheese.
- That's funny, that's great.
Yeah, sheep cheese, good stuff.
Okay, let's go to the phones.
Good morning, you're on the air with Dr. Ray Peat.
Who's this?
- Hi, good morning.
My name is Mo, I'm from Fort Worth, Texas.
Dr. Peat, thank you for being here for us.
I hadn't drunk orange juice in 20 years
and after listening to your show,
I started to drink the orange juice
and for the first time in 25 years,
my hands and feet for the last six months
were nice and warm and now they are back to being cold.
So I don't know what the deal is here.
And also the first time my thyroid test came out 0.1
and it was always two and three
and the doctor kept saying it's normal, it's normal.
So I'm wondering what's going on
and also I want to know about your formulation
for progesterone cream.
Is it done by one company or the same formula?
- Okay, let's do all those.
So you're saying that at first when you did the orange juice
then your hands got warmer and then they didn't
and then you said the titer,
you mean you're talking about your TSH?
- Yeah.
- Okay, your TSH went from where?
- From two and three to 0.1.
I was thrilled to be there.
- Well, that's good, right?
It goes down, Dr. Peat, right?
Her TSH went down, right?
- Yeah, normally when you look at healthy people,
they have the lowest TSH
but also stress hormones can lower it.
So if something caused your cortisol and adrenaline
to go sharply up,
that also could account for lowering the TSH.
So in that case, it's important to look at your temperature,
heart rate and also if you have a blood test for T3,
the T3 is the active hormone that produces the heat.
- How could the orange juice help her thyroid
must have started working better
to get more circulation in her hands and feet?
- It does contain, the reason I recommend it
as a favorite carbohydrate is that it comes
with many very powerful anti-inflammatory flavonoids,
naringenin, nobiletin and a whole variety
of very anti-inflammatory things
that can help your thyroid work.
But when your hands suddenly get cold,
it's very important to look for what's happening.
Sometimes it could be a calcium deficiency
or a vitamin D deficiency interfering
with energy production by increasing parathyroid hormone.
Not getting enough salt in your diet is another thing.
Salt and calcium work closely to hold down
the aldosterone parathyroid system.
- Wow, so it gets a little complicated.
So you, my dear, you were interested in knowing
something about a progesterone formula?
- Yeah, Dr. Ray Peat has.
Where could I get it and are they all same,
whichever company?
- Yeah, he'll tell you here, just listen, okay?
- Yeah, the formula I designed in the 1970s,
progesterone in vitamin E and natural coconut oil,
that has been made ever since by a company called Kenogen.
- Ketogen, keto?
- Kenogen, yeah, the email is kenogen@gmail.com.
- Is that K-E-N like Nancy?
- Yeah, K-E-N-O-G-E-N.
- And so that's just progesterone, vitamin E,
and coconut oil, Kenogen, and you like that product
'cause you developed the formula.
- Yeah.
- And so there you go, does that help you?
- Is it just that one company that does that,
Ketogen, whatever?
- Yeah, that's the same company
that I licensed it to long ago.
- Oh.
- Okay, thank you so much.
- You're quite welcome.
- I appreciate all your help.
- Wow, very interesting, Kenogen.
So you believe that that's a better choice
than just doing the progesterone cream a la carte,
you know, like from the wild yams or something?
- Yeah, if you wanted to use it on your skin,
it spreads more easily if you add some coconut or olive oil
because it has so much vitamin E in it
that it's very viscous and can be diluted
with about an equal part of olive or coconut oil.
- Oh, cool.
Here's one for you, boy, this is a new one.
I'm very interested, are there any movies
that Dr. Peat found enjoyable or noteworthy
as a positive experience for him?
Also, any fiction books?
- Oh, none, I would have to think about that.
I have occasionally read fiction
and now and then I see a good movie,
but they aren't on the top of my head.
- Nothing that comes to the top of your head.
Doc, we ran a little late,
can you stick around for a few more minutes?
- Okay.
- Okay, stay right there.
Yeah, guys, we normally end at noon
and just keep 'em 90 minutes,
but we got a lot of emails and we got started late,
so I'd like you to stay right there, please.
Previously with the highly credentialed
Dr. Thomas Levy, he argues because the literature shows
that oxidation is the cause of disease.
- But the whole point is the location,
the concentration, the duration,
the distribution of oxidized biomolecules
determines 100% of all diseases.
And so that's why I say oxidative stress
doesn't cause disease, oxidation is disease.
- Is disease.
- If there's no oxidized biomolecules,
you don't have a toxin.
The toxic effect is oxidation of biomolecules.
That's the entirety of it.
- And by the grace of God, several months ago,
George Wiseman said this about hydrogen.
- Hydrogen is the world's best antioxidant by a long shot.
First of all, it's 700 times smaller
than something like CoQ10,
400 times smaller than vitamin C, things like that.
So it can literally go, the hydrogen molecule
can literally go through everything in your body
and go right into the very DNA and repair it.
- So now it makes sense why George was able to say this
back in August, 2019, with such conviction.
- The body accepts that gas
and uses it to heal everything.
It's like the fountain of youth.
It's astonishing the amount of ailments.
In fact, in scientific studies,
and they have over a thousand scientific studies now,
they are showing that it either helps the body heal directly
or indirectly from virtually every ailment
that ails any water-based life form.
- Okay, I'm sold.
And I was able to get one a couple of months ago,
thanks to your support.
It's called the Aquacure Hydrogen Machine.
Breathe the gas and bubble the water.
There's a promo code OneRadio for 10% discount.
I think a great investment for you,
knowing what we know now.
On OneRadioNetwork.com.
About a year ago, I was in the throes
of this little tummy karma thing that I've had,
and I was drinking just a whole lot of this pure,
fresh, frozen aloe from one of our sponsors,
Stockton Aloe One, and it was great,
and it kept me kind of on track,
but it really didn't heal the tummy,
which, you know, there just had to be
some kind of a gastritis thing going on,
or ulcer or something.
And, you know, I was very curious about that.
And so, as of late, we found that there was
some subluxation in C4-C5, which is directly tied in
with the stomach and the vagus nerve,
and that has been worked on over the last month,
and now I'm back, I ordered three or four
of the Stockton Aloe One, and just amazing, really.
So, this aloe product can really heal things
in your tummy, all small intestine, things like that.
Now, I had this energy with the subluxation,
and, you know, if you got the nerves pinched
and all that, you know, the stomach is not gonna do
much of anything except survive.
So, it helped me survive, but it didn't heal,
not like it's doing now, and I'm only doing
two, three, four, five ounces a day,
and wow, I'm just so grateful.
So, this Stockton Aloe One, if you'd like to try some aloe,
this is pure aloe, they just take out the meat,
and then they put it in the bottle,
and they flash, I can never say that,
flash freeze it, and then that's it,
and it comes in frozen, it's all packaged up
in nice styrofoam, you just thaw out what you need,
put it in a glass thing and drink it,
and if you want some, there's no sodium benzoate,
there's nothing in there except healing potential of aloe,
and it's very, very powerful.
You can put this on your face, you can do
a lot of stuff with it, but just drink it,
and I would conjecture, and I'm just making it up,
I don't know if it's true, but virtually anyone
could have a good time with their stomach,
their small and large intestine,
to having aloe in your body, it's just pretty,
pretty miraculous.
Stockton Aloe One, you can click and order
on oneradionetwork.com.
(upbeat music)
- Nothing is more expensive than bad information.
Know the source, oneradionetwork.com.
- Dr. Ray Peat, he's a PhD, and he's rayPeat.com,
it is rayPeat.com, PhD, biology,
been at it for a very, very long time.
He has a newsletter that you can sign up for,
and he's gonna give you the email here of how to do that,
and then it's every other month for a year or so,
and it's really a great price.
What's that newsletter, Doc, that email?
- RayPeatsnewsletter@gmail.com.
What was your latest one on?
- It has an S, Ray Peat's.
- Oh, Ray Peat's, Ray Peat's newsletter, yeah,
we always put that on our front,
we have a hot link there right on the show.
What's your latest newsletter about?
- Gilbert Ling's work, he died last fall,
about a month short of 100 years.
He was one of my early influences in biology,
my first couple of weeks in graduate school.
I realized my professor was talking hot air
and started reading the background
and found that every time he cited a source for his beliefs,
if I read in the same journals,
I found better contradictory work
that had been published by Gilbert Ling,
and so I contacted him and had been following his work
steadily since 1968.
So this newsletter is explaining the meaning of his work
and how a sort of insanity took over biological,
especially nerve function, electronic functions of cells.
He gave an actual clear, consistent explanation
where all of the standard things
that people are still pretty much talking about
are essentially impossible fantasies.
- Very interesting.
Here's an email from Joyce.
I heard an old show with a guest that Patrick had on,
Jonathan Wright, that suggested estriol, E-S-T-O-R-I-O-L,
could actually be used topically on the face for wrinkles.
Does Dr. Peat think that's possible?
- It makes the skin take up water,
and so it will plump up the skin,
but meanwhile, it's altering the collagen.
Estriol is the weakest estrogen,
10 times weaker than estradiol,
but people need to use 10 times more to get the effect,
and the effect is exactly the same as estradiol,
the powerful, dangerous estrogen.
They like to use it.
I don't know if it's still practiced,
but for many years, they used it on cattle
because it made them take up water.
- Wow.
- When they started doing that, a steak,
when you put it on a frying pan, it tends to exude water,
and so it boils instead of frying,
but estrogen does that to your skin, too.
It makes it swell up with water,
and so it looks smooth and shiny.
- Is that good?
- No.
- Oh, it's not good.
So you don't want to put estriol on your skin.
It's just not a good idea.
- Yeah.
- Okay.
- It's pro-aging.
My dissertation was on the age-accelerating effects
of estrogen.
- Oh, you don't want to do that.
And estrogen is what we get from, what, soybeans
and things like that, correct?
- Yeah.
- So we don't like those guys.
I'd like to know what soap Dr. Peat uses.
Many of the natural soaps are full of Pufus.
- No, I use pure coconut soap.
- Coconut soap, yeah, yeah.
I have two questions.
This one is from Mary.
Can Dr. Peat talk about physiologic role
of norepinephrine and noradrenaline?
Wow.
- The adrenaline system has been maligned
it's the fight or flight immediate response
stress hormone, but it does activate
other stress hormones, cortisol and so on.
So it can, if it persists, it can be harmful.
But the history of it maligning that has led people
to overemphasize the opposite parasympathetic
part of the nervous system, which with severe stress
and aging, the parasympathetic overtakes the other side
and creates the degenerative processes.
So things that momentarily increase the epinephrine
or adrenaline side can be very, very helpful
if they are stopped soon enough.
And sugar and salt happen to be two of the nutrients
that will limit uncontrolled production
of the adrenaline system.
Thyroid, I've seen hypothyroid people
who had just hour after hour,
their blood would be saturated with as much as 40 times
the normal level of adrenaline compensating
for the low thyroid function.
And so when you first take thyroid,
if you have been overproducing adrenaline,
you will experience a stress, speedy adrenaline reaction.
People think that's the thyroid action,
but actually the thyroid has a relaxing function.
You have to adapt to it gradually
by getting your adrenaline under control.
And having a sugary and salty foods
while you're adjusting to your thyroid
will let you keep the adrenaline under control.
And then when your thyroid function is good,
adrenaline is all good.
It speeds your thinking
and does everything helpful for adaptation.
It's just the overproduction of it,
usually from hypothyroidism, that becomes a stress problem.
- Very good.
Thomas says mid-40s always had leg cramps
for many, many years.
And he said he would notice that sweet or salty
in the evening would exacerbate it.
And then he figured out that having lots of water
before he went to bed would really calm it all down.
And he wanted to know what could be going on
and why do people get cramps mainly at night
when they are lying horizontally?
- The parasympathetic system turns on when you lie down.
- Right.
- Your adrenaline goes down.
And that's the sort of thing I was just talking about.
Parasympathetic goes up at night.
And with age in particular,
the parasympathetic starts overpowering
the adrenaline system.
And during the night,
that causes your blood sugar to go down.
And the falling blood sugar turns on other stress hormones.
And you go into various,
asthma can occur primarily at night.
And even epileptic seizures can be triggered
by that parasympathetic dominance
lowering your blood sugar.
- But parasympathetic is better at night.
It's more to relax in the sleep, right?
- Yeah, normally that happens with young people.
But with old age, it exacerbates the problems of aging.
I think thyroid hormone deficiency
is part of that age-related sleep problem.
- Interesting.
Here's an email for you.
Can pneumonia be treated at home,
for example, with food or coffee or niacinamide,
red light or watching funny movies?
That's funny.
What do you think about that?
- Pneumonia, it's usually produced,
most often produced by inflammatory signals
that they can come from your intestine or from germs,
but anti-inflammatory things,
chicken soup, a source of salt and gelatin, for example,
orange juice, milk and ice cream,
all of these can help reduce inflammation.
Aspirin, Losartan, the thing I mentioned
for angiotensin opposition,
that has been used for treating pneumonia,
among other things.
- Interesting.
Which potato has the most ketones, red, yukon or russet?
- The red potatoes are usually higher in water content.
The russet, I think, has the best nutrition.
Technically, you could find the nutrients in the yukon,
but I think they're the ones
with the yellow carotene content.
They are harder to digest
because the carotene interferes
with the breakdown of the starch.
- Linda wants to know if you can talk
about the Scandinavians, how they cook fish in lye,
like lute fish, is there health benefits?
- I don't think there's any.
I think it was just a preservative thing,
keeping fish in storage.
- Amy wants to know, will charcoal help with virus?
- If you have a bad intestinal situation,
charcoal, I think the best approach
is to have a daily carrot.
Carrot salad, for example, will clean your intestine
and remove antithyroid factors.
- Oh, that's the one where you put,
what do you do, Doc, you put a little bit of vinegar
and coconut oil in there?
No carrots?
- And salt.
- Salt?
- Yeah.
- Of course, salt, gotta have salt.
What does Dr. Peat think about mixing magnesium carbonate
with vinegar and calcium gluconate
to improve the absorption of the calcium and magnesium?
Mixing magnesium carbonate with vinegar
and calcium gluconate.
- Magnesium carbonate, first of all,
a lot of people are sensitive to some impurity
in most of the products that I've seen.
I used to use it regularly as a magnesium supplement,
but I've had very bad headaches from it,
and lots of people experience that.
So you have to be cautious with any of those pure chemicals.
Nancy wants to know, is there any way
to make the valves in my legs work again?
I've been diagnosed with venous reflux disease
and so fearful of having the procedure done,
I'm doing support stockings.
Anything I can do?
- The stockings are definitely helpful,
but the cause of it is usually a hormone imbalance,
high estrogen in relation to DHEA,
pregnenolone, progesterone, and testosterone.
The bad ratio of estrogen weakens the wall of the veins
and lets them balloon and tend to form clots.
So checking your hormones,
making sure that your thyroid is good,
that's usually deficient,
causing the high estrogen
to the progesterone and androgen ratio.
- Couple more here, then we'll let you go to work.
Okay.
Does Ray, (laughs)
boy, you guys are getting clever this morning.
Does Ray Peat, this is from Matthias,
does Ray Peat believe in God?
- It depends on how you define it.
I'm sort of a fan of the process theology.
If you Google that,
you can find one of the most famous
current process theologists.
They're basing their thinking on Alfred North Whitehead,
who was one of my philosophical influences.
Whitehead made himself unpopular among philosophers
by using the word God.
But if you read the process theology
based on Whitehead, you'll get an idea of my approach.
- Dr. Peat, I love your shows.
This is from Paula in Scottsdale, Arizona.
My dentist used a cone beam x-ray
and told me I have a cavitation in my jaw
from a tooth that was extracted 40 years ago.
He said about 95% of all extractions
end up with some cavitations.
I've never had any pain or tenderness there in my mouth,
but he wants to do surgery
and scrape and clean out it properly.
It'd be pretty expensive.
Expensive, I'm wondering if this is really needed.
- No, I don't think it is.
If there's no pain, there's almost certainly no infection.
When you pull a tooth,
sometimes the bone doesn't fill in the hole.
No problem there.
- You don't believe there's a problem there?
- No.
- Okay.
Cavitations.
What is Dr. Peat's opinion on eating organic Adami soy?
Is the estrogen too much?
Or if eaten in moderation, would it be okay, Adami soy?
- I think it's okay as a condiment in very limited amounts.
For example, soy sauce, I think it's safe
to use occasionally in a small amount.
But the more, for example, in Hawaii,
there was a study of people who ate tofu
and those who didn't,
and dementia was higher in the tofu eaters.
- Dementia was higher in the tofu eaters?
- Yeah.
- What's that about, I wonder?
Is it just the estrogen?
- Yeah.
I think a poor diet in general
because tofu isn't a very complete nutrient.
Another study in China found that milk drinkers
had much lower incidence of dementia.
High quality protein and anti-inflammatory
properties of the milk.
- What about tempeh?
You get organic tempeh.
Reasonable food or staple?
- In moderation, just for a pleasure food,
but not a staple.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Final one, you'll like this one.
After my husband started massaging my lower legs,
it seems like the healing kicked in overdrive,
swelling reduced immediately,
and now I've been able to walk carefully again.
Is there a correlation?
- Oh, sure.
- Of course.
Love heals everything, right?
Your husband massaged your legs.
I mean, how could you not feel better, right?
- Yep.
- Yeah, boy.
Well, Dr. Peat, thanks so much for being here.
We had a great time,
and I was really appreciating the virus stuff early on.
Let us know if there's anything we can do.
If you'd like to visit Dr. Peat's website,
it is raypeat.com.
You can look in our archives.
We've had him on the show quite a few times.
Just put Ray Peat in the search function,
top right of One Radio Network,
and pass on these links to everyone that you care about.
All right, my friend, thank you, sir.
You take care of yourself,
and we'll talk to you next month, okay?
- Okay, thank you.
- Yes, sir.
Bye-bye.
Dr. Ray Peat, he's a good one, huh?
Well, boy, we covered a lot of territory today.
Appreciate your ongoing support of what we do here.
Let us know if there's anything that we can do.
My email is patrick@oneradionetwork.com.
You can like us on the YouTube thing or Facebook,
and it passes on the different,
even though we're just doing audio right now
till we get the video thing all straight,
it still passes on these links to other people
and helps to spread the word.
Also, do the thing on YouTube
or subscribe to our UbiTubi channel.
And once we get the whole video thing straight
where the lips are synced up with the sound,
we'll go back to putting some guests on cameras
that wanna be on camera.
Dr. Peat doesn't do the camera thing anyway,
so we just have to go with the picture.
So that's that.
What are we gonna do Wednesday?
I've reached out to Dr. Cowan to see if he will do,
asked him to do a little show with us,
a special show on the whole coronavirus 5G thing
that we put the video on our front page.
So we'll see if that's,
we'll see if he responds to that.
We have Richard Olry on Wednesday,
and we're gonna go over my hair analysis.
He's gonna do a whole thing on how the hair analysis works
and how you might use that technology to help you.
A co-founder of Health Choice, he's a cool guy,
Mark Blacksell will be here on Wednesday as well.
So we're out there and we have interview requests
out all over the world,
and if we get something that pops in
and we just do the interview,
so just keep in touch with One Radio Network.
And if you might hear some shows just kinda pop in,
looks just like we did the other day with one of 'em.
Don't even recall which one.
Anyway, I love you all very much.
Thanks for being here.
Appreciate your ongoing support,
and we appreciate you very much.
And I love you, and I'll see you.
May the blessings be.
- [Announcer] We are listener supported.
One Radio Network.
(upbeat music)
(static)
[BLANK_AUDIO]